---
title: Upload Process for Split Products
---

If you would like to upload a product as individual sale items, you will
need to split your files for upload. Each will need its own complete zip
file and PASS entry.

To upload split products into PASS, each item will need its own
submission entry as well as a Bundle submission. For example, if an
outfit has a top, pants, and shoes then there will be 4 total PASS
entries.

-   Pants

-   Top

-   Shoes

-   Product Bundle

Upload the appropriate zip onto each piece's entry. Each zip will need
to be complete on its own, and not require anything from any other zip.

The bundle needs a zip which contains an outfit Wearable Preset to apply
the complete outfit. That is all that should be contained in the Bundle
zip.

## When uploading, make sure to choose the correct "Product Kind" in PASS:

![Graphical user interface, text, application, email Description
automatically generated](media/image1.png){width="2.5585859580052492in"
height="2.8004166666666666in"}

> Make sure all the uploaded zips use the same folder naming &
> structures. Do:

Textures -- Each piece should have its own folder:

-   Runtime\>Textures\>dForceAwesomeOutfit\>MAOShirt\> textures

-   Runtime\>Textures\>dForceAwesomeOutfit\>MAOPant\> textures

-   Runtime\>Textures\>dForceAwesomeOutfit\>MAOShoe\> textures Presets:

-   People\>Genesis 8 Female\>Clothing\>Product Name\>Presets

## Do Not:

Textures:

-   Runtime\>Textures\>MyOutfit\>all textures Presets:

-   People\>Clothing\>Genesis 8.1 Females\>Clothing\>Product Name

-   People\>Clothing\>Genesis 8.1 \>Clothing\>Product Name

-   People\>Clothing\>Genesis 8.1 Female\> Product Name

# Naming Conventions:

When you name your product, the Bundle will be named as usual, and the
pieces will inherit the name plus the piece.

## Bundle Name Example:

dForce Awesome Outfit for Genesis 8.1 Females

## Individual Piece Name Examples:

Only put dForce on actual pieces that are using dForce. Example the top
and pants do, but not the shoes.

-   Awesome Outfit dForce Pants for Genesis 8.1 Females

-   Awesome Outfit dForce Top for Genesis 8.1 Females

-   Awesome Outfit Shoes for Genesis 8.1 Females All Texture Presets
    need to be Uniquely Named:

## Do:

-   Ruby Red Pants

-   Ruby Red Top

-   Onyx Shoes

## Do Not:

-   Pants 1

-   Pants 2

-   Pants 3

## Adjustment Morphs:

Since not all clothing is designed to work together, it is required that
you add appropriate adjustment morphs that will allow users to mix and
match outfits, such as "Loosen", "Tighten" and so forth. These will
allow users to adjust manually and use a top from one set and a skirt
for another and so forth.

# Promo Images for Individual Pieces:

## Main image:

For store consistency, the Main image should be on a single-color
gradient. The item should show a front and back view and a lineup of the
textures below the item, as shown here:

![A picture containing person, coat Description automatically
generated](media/image2.jpeg){width="2.370565398075241in"
height="3.0816666666666666in"}

## For popups:

Show at least 1 artistic render of the full outfit (like the current
mains). Show a clay version, and if you'd like, the item on a medium
grey mannequin. If there are many textures, you can add a popup showing
those.

![](media/image3.png){width="4.732679352580927in"
height="1.370624453193351in"}

If you have any questions, please feel free to submit a support ticket
to [[PA
Support]{.underline}.](https://dazpasupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)
