# Uploading to Pass

Welcome to Daz 3d's product upload system. All products for the Daz
store must be submitted through the Pass system. This document is a
step-by-step guide of the entire process. At the end of the document is
an Appendix which will have some added tips, examples, and suggestions.

## Step 1 -- Log in

Log in to the website:
[[pass.daz3d.com]{.underline}](http://pass.daz3d.com/login)

![A picture containing shape Description automatically
generated](media/image1.png){width="3.7660312773403324in"
height="0.788332239720035in"}

### Product Upload History

The first thing you will see when logged in is your product history. You
will be able to see any products you have submitted and the status of
each product. The small red flag indicates an unread comment on the
product. Open that product's page by clicking on the name and scroll to
the bottom to see any comments left by the review team, QA, or marketing
personnel.

![](media/image2.jpeg){width="6.4815234033245845in" height="3.195in"}

### Viewing Options

Pass can get overwhelming quickly once you have a large amount of
history. There may be times you do not want to see everything. Pass now
allows you to choose what you want to see or not see on your history
page.

Click Column visibility and highlight the options you want to see.
(blue) Click a highlighted column name to hide it from visibility.
(white)

![](media/image3.jpeg){width="6.473202099737533in"
height="3.1949989063867017in"}

## Step 2 -- Creating a New Submission

To create a new product submission, click on the "Submit New Product"
button in the top right corner of

the page.

![](media/image4.jpeg){width="6.5157491251093616in"
height="0.9212489063867016in"}

### Create New Product

On this page you will name your product, select the "Type" and accept
the "Publishing Agreement"

terms.

![](media/image5.jpeg){width="6.537360017497813in" height="2.09in"}

**Product Name:** Create a unique name for your product. (\*see appendix
for naming tips)

> **Title Notes:** Optional (\*see appendix for suggested uses)
>
> **Product Type:** Select a type for your product.

![](media/image6.png){width="3.9068514873140856in"
height="2.0791655730533685in"}

-   *Normal*: Most uploads will be set to Normal

-   *Bundle*: Used for the main bundle page when submitting several
    products that will be sold as a

> "bundle" in the store.

-   *Promo Artwork*: Used when you are uploading art only. Such as promo
    updates.

-   *File Update*: Used when you are uploading an update to a product
    > that is live in the store, or otherwise through QA.

**Store:** Select which store your product is being submitted.

![](media/image7.png){width="3.715923009623797in"
height="2.082082239720035in"}

-   *Daz 3D*

-   *Platinum Club*

-   *Tafi* (future use)

**Accept the Publishing Agreement**. This must be checked, or you will
no be able to submit your product. If you have any questions concerning
the agreement, please submit a ticket through the [[PA
Support]{.underline}](http://dazpasupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)
[[System]{.underline}.](http://dazpasupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)

![](media/image8.jpeg){width="3.7156933508311463in"
height="2.030624453193351in"}

Once you have everything filled in, click the "Create" button in the top
right corner. If you get errors, please double check that all required
sections have been filled in. Once everything is correct, you will be
taken to a new form, covered in Step 3.

## Step 3 -- Product Page Details

This next section has several areas to upload images and files as well
as fill in details about your product. This is where you will give as
much detail as possible to allow the people working with your product
(both QA and marketing) to ensure your product is represented accurately
in the store.

![](media/image9.jpeg){width="6.473202099737533in"
height="3.1949989063867017in"}

### Type & Pricing:

The product name and any title notes should be automatically populated
with the details you added in the previous step. In this top section,
you will want to upload your promos and files and fill in pricing.

**Product Name:** Should already be filled in. Double check spelling and
spacing.

> **Title Notes:** Should already be filled in. Double check.
>
> **Product Poly Count:** Please add the total poly count for any
> products containing mesh.
>
> **Product Type:** Should already be selected. Double check.

**Product Kind:** Please select a "kind" closest to your type of
product. If nothing fits, you can leave as is.

**Store:** Should already be selected. Double check.

> **Suggested Store Price:** Fill in the price you would like to sell
> your product in the store.

-   The price should end in .95 (i.e., \$21.95)

-   Current minimum store price is \$14.95

-   Daz reserves the right to reprice your product based on sales data
    and store averages.

### Promo Artwork & File Uploads:

One of the main areas that cause errors when uploading is the Promo
Artwork. This section will cover the requirements for images to make the
process easier.

![](media/image10.png){width="6.057723097112861in"
height="1.939582239720035in"}

### Promo image requirements:

-   Promos must be.jpg

-   All promos must follow the Promo Art Guidelines

-   All promos are subject to feedback and change requests

-   If you have questions on where to find these or any other promo art
    > questions before submission, please submit a ticket through the PA
    > Support system. If the Review Team has left feedback in Pass you
    > can comment back on your submission via Pass.

-   Daz retains the option to ask for changes, make suggestions and
    > reject any images. This allows them to help you represent your
    > product well in the store.

#### Main Image:

-   All products require a Main image with the aspect ratio of *1000 w x
    > 1300 h*. It can be larger, but the aspect ratio must be the same.

-   Main image must be *portrait layout*

-   Images should be *jpg* format

-   Name the main image *main.jpg*

#### Thumbnail Image:

-   All products require a thumbnail image with the aspect ratio of *380
    w x 494 h*

-   Thumbnail image must be *portrait layout*

-   Thumbnail may NOT contain any text, watermark, logos etc.

-   Name the image *thumbnail.jpg*

#### Popup Images:

-   Popup images can be either portrait or landscape layout.

-   Products should try to have at least 4 popup images

-   Name the popups *popup_01.jpg*, *popup_02.jpg*, etc.

#### Other Artwork:

This section is for reference images, wireframes, or any other images
you do not want to show in the store. If the review team asks for
changes to a promo, they may move the original to "Other Artwork" to
compare to the new version.

### File Uploads:

#### Validator Files:

All products should be run through the Validator script tool. You can
access this script via your PA store account. **SKU: 74345**

Make sure you run the scrip and then fix any issues found. Continue this
until your files are error free. Upload a copy of the final test to this
section.

![](media/image11.png){width="6.320563210848644in"
height="1.2353116797900263in"}

#### Files:

This is where the actual product to be tested is uploaded.

![](media/image12.png){width="6.219086832895888in"
height="1.6706244531933507in"}

Please upload the complete zip of your product being submitted for the
store.

-   Zip size limit is 512MB

-   Multiple zips can be uploaded when necessary

-   File extensions are zip to. z09

-   Make sure all files extract correctly prior to uploading

-   If you have issues uploading contact PA Support Once all files have
    been uploaded, save your page.

> ![](media/image13.png){width="1.2381222659667541in"
> height="0.39187445319335085in"}

Once you have saved your page, you should see all your uploaded images
and files as shown:

![](media/image14.png){width="6.55329615048119in"
height="3.3229166666666665in"}

### Product Buyout Option, Licenses, Descriptions & Features:

This section covers the buyout option and the store details for your
product.

![](media/image15.jpeg){width="6.3883027121609794in" height="3.19in"}

#### Buyout Option:

Just under the "Suggested Store Price" is a check box allowing you to
offer your product for buyout consideration. Once checked, you will see
an added field where you can put in the price which you would like to
sell your product.

> ![](media/image16.jpeg){width="6.019610673665792in"
> height="2.1590616797900264in"}

Fill in the desired selling price and the review team will either
accept, counteroffer based on sales data, or pass on the buyout and move
the product through as brokered. If Daz accepts the buyout they will
check the Buyout Accepted by Daz and move ahead.

#### Additional Licenses:

You can opt in to offer commercial licenses allowing users to use the
purchased assets in games or 3D print.

#### Product Description:

You will need to add a detailed description of your product.

-   **Do** use words that will be search engine friendly. (i.e., *This
    > contemporary clothing set comes with a shirt, pants, and ankle
    > boots.*)

-   ***Do not*** use poetic descriptions that tell the buyer nothing
    > about your product. (*i.e., Susan was a poor girl growing up and
    > always had a burning desire for nice things and fancy clothes*.)
    > This second description does nothing to help market what you are
    > selling.

-   Check spelling and grammar.

-   Do not use a bunch of fancy formatting. It will be removed.

#### What's Included and Features:

When you chose the *Product Kind* earlier the feature list was populated
with an appropriate template for the kind of product you are uploading.

-   Fill this out to the best of your ability.

-   Empty feature lists are subject to being sent back to be filled in,
    thus delaying your product.

-   Do not change the formatting

### Product Keywords, Categories & Compatibilities:

This section defines the keywords, categories and compatibilities of
your product and helps users better find the product when using searches
and filters in the store.

![](media/image17.png){width="6.3638101487314085in"
height="1.4049989063867017in"}

#### Keywords:

Add relevant keywords to your product.

-   Use words that are likely to be used to search for your product.
    > (*i.e., purse, bag, handbag, wallet*)

-   Generic keywords will bring up a vast number of products, so may/may
    > not be useful as keywords. (*i.e., blue, ball, light*) They are
    > allowed, but may not give in the desired results.

-   Do not add brand names, sexualized words/phrases or any other
    > verbiage that may go against the TOS (terms of service). These
    > will be removed

#### Categories:

It is important to choose the correct categories for your product.
Selecting the wrong categories results in products not showing up when a
customer uses the Category filters in the store. As you can see here,
typing in Genesis brings up a long list of categories with Genesis as a
root. Scroll down until you find the appropriate category for your
product.

![](media/image18.png){width="3.9320395888013997in"
height="1.7893744531933509in"}

A product can be in more than one category.

To remove an added category, just click on the category name and you
will see a red line through the name. This category will be removed when
the page is saved.

![](media/image19.jpeg){width="6.306700568678915in"
height="0.8305205599300087in"}

#### File Types:

This allows you to list the file types included with your product. If
you have multiple file types supported, hold the **Ctrl** (*Win*)
**Cmd** (*Mac*) key to click each and multi-select.

![](media/image20.png){width="3.8276607611548554in"
height="0.8583333333333333in"}

#### Compatible Software:

This allows you to choose the software format for your product. Most
products uploaded will be compatible with the latest Daz Studio version.
If you have other types such as Maya, blender etc...., you can select
that instead. If you have multiple file formats supported, hold the
**Ctrl** (*Win*) **Cmd** (*Mac*) key to click each and multi-select.

![](media/image21.png){width="3.853438320209974in"
height="1.8065616797900264in"}

#### Genre:

This is a "theme" type selection for your product. Choose at least one
appropriate genre for your product. If it is appropriate for more than
one, you may choose another. Do not use the "Staff Picks" genre, as this
is for in-house use only and will be removed.

> ![](media/image22.png){width="3.973332239720035in" height="1.64in"}

### Store Information:

This section is where you can add any special notes to QA, for the
ReadMe and set up any requirements for your product. You will also need
to add any Pas you may be partnering with on the product and fill in the
appropriate payment splits.

> ![](media/image23.jpeg){width="6.3979560367454065in" height="3.215in"}

#### Store Page:

Leave this blank.

#### Notes for QA:

Optional - Leave any special notes QA may need to test your product.

#### Part of the Following Bundles:

Covered below in Appendix.

#### Required Products:

> This works the same as other sections above. Start typing the name of
> a required product and a list will pop up and you can select any
> products that are required for the customer to own and have installed
> to use your product. (*i.e., An outfit's texture add on would need the
> outfit listed as the required product*.)
>
> ![](media/image24.png){width="6.390074365704287in"
> height="1.1404166666666666in"}

#### Products used in Product Artwork:

Optional - Customers often ask what products are used in promo images.
This is where you can list any products in the Daz 3D store that were
used in your imagery. This works the same as other sections above. Start
typing the name of a required product and a list will pop up and you can
select any products you want to add.

#### Notes for Readme:

Optional - If there are any special notes that will make the customer
experience easier with your product, please put a detailed description
or steps in this section. They will get added to the Readme in the
Document Center.

#### Related Products:

Optional - This works the same as other sections above. Start typing the
name of a product and a list will pop up and you can select the ones you
wish to add. You can add multiple products. The store page shows 5
products by default.

#### PA Splits:

Your PA name and 100 % should automatically show up here. If you are
splitting revenue with another PA, you must add them here and fix the
split between all PAs listed.

-   All PAs who are getting revenue need to be listed.

-   Percent totals need to equal 100 %

-   If a PA is not listed, they will not get paid.

-   Add PAs by searching their PA name (*it will pop up in a list*)

-   Remove a PA by changing their percent to 0 % and it will be removed
    when the page is re-saved.

At this point you want to do a final Save of your page. It will not be
submitted, but all the information you have added will be saved and
ready.

![](media/image13.png){width="1.2310925196850393in"
height="0.3958333333333333in"}

## Step 4 - Page Review and Submission

### Review Your Page:

Once you have everything saved and you have checked the form for any
errors or omissions and everything is how you want it, you are ready to
review your page. In the top right corner, click the "More" menu and you
will get a dropdown with the option to "Preview Store Page". This will
open a sample page for your product. (\**see example below*)

#### A few things to keep in mind:

-   The page defaults to a placeholder of *Genesis 8 Male* as required.
    > Just make sure your required is correct.

-   The SKU is a placeholder and will not be the actual SKU assigned to
    the product

-   The discounted "sale" price is an example only.

![](media/image25.jpeg){width="6.40408573928259in"
height="5.095728346456693in"}

### Submit Your Page:

Once you have reviewed your page and fixed any issues, you are ready to
Submit. Go to the same "More" menu and this time select "Submit
Product". You will get a popup verifying the status change and a few
other notes. Please read and then click "Submit Product".

![](media/image26.png){width="2.4595363079615047in"
height="1.6593744531933508in"}

Next you will get a verification. Hit "OK" or "Cancel". **OK:** Will
submit the product for review and testing **Cancel:** Will take you back
to your page.

![](media/image27.png){width="4.76320428696413in"
height="3.5416666666666665in"}

> **Congratulations! You have completed the product submission
> process.**

## Step 5 -- Comments, Review, Testing & Beyond

Once your product is submitted you enter the queue for product review
and QA testing.

### Product Review:

At this stage, your product will go through an initial review where you
may be given feedback on the product, promos, or other aspects of the
submission. It will be sent back to "Pending" and you should receive an
email of the status change.

![](media/image28.jpeg){width="6.457047244094488in" height="1.715in"}

Be sure to read any comments left by the initial reviewer. If you have
questions, you can ask these in the Comments section. If changes are
requested, make the changes.

Once the changes are uploaded, or you have replied to the comments, be
sure to go back and "Submit Product" again. The review team does not
look at products in "Pending" status.

![](media/image29.jpeg){width="6.539076990376203in"
height="1.2512489063867016in"}

### Testing & Beyond:

Once a product has passed Review it is moved to the "Copy Approval"
queue. After that, it goes to

"Ready to Test" Once here, it is in line for testing by the QA staff.

Here is a list of pertinent status queues you will pass through and what
is happening at each one.

-   **Pending:** Your product is not submitted and will not be looked at
    until it is.

-   **Submitted:** You have submitted your product for review and
    acceptance.

-   **Review:** Your product has passed the initial review stage and is
    > being looked at by the full review team. It is still subject to
    > change requests and feedback.

-   **Copy Approval:** The Description and Feature list are being
    > checked for grammatical and spelling issues. It may get minor
    > revisions for readability and errors.

-   Ready to Test: Your product has reached QA and is waiting for an
    > available tester. Depending on the number of other products before
    > you, this may take 1- 3 weeks.

-   **Testing:** Your tester has picked up the product and is actively
    testing.

-   **PA Corrections:** The tester has found issues and added a report
    > in the comments for you to review and fix. You will see a new
    > section in the File Upload area. Once you have uploaded all your
    > fixes and saved the page, click the "Corrections Complete" button.

    -   **Testing Updates:** You have uploaded and hit the "Corrections
        > Complete" button. The

> status change lets the tester know your files are ready for re-review.

-   **Store Page/Installer:** Your product has passed testing and is
    > being packaged for the store. Your store page is being created.

-   **Final QA:** Your product is complete and ready for the store.

    -   At this point it will be moved ahead to "Marketing" for release
        > scheduling.

    -   Or, if it is a Buyout, it may be moved to "Hold for Release" or
        > some other internal

> queue. This is also the point you will be sent a contract if it is a
> buyout.

This should complete your process through the entire Pass system. As
always, please submit any questions through the [[PA Support
System]{.underline}.](http://dazpasupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)

# Appendix

This section will have some added information and answer some common
questions.

### Common Questions:

> Q: *Why will not it let me save my page?*

A: This is often caused when required information is missing or
guidelines, such as image size or naming conventions are not being
followed. Read the information in the popup and correct any issues and
re- save.

> Q: *My images will not upload. Why?*
>
> A: Your images must be in .jpg file format. .png,. jpge, .gif etc will
> not save. Q: *My file is not uploading. Why?*
>
> A: This happens when a file is not in .zip format or when it exceeds
> the 512MB file limit size. Q: *Why isn't anyone answering my
> comments?*

A: Check to see if you left your submission in "Pending". The team does
not monitor the "Pending"

status queue.

> Q: *I have a product that has been sitting for days and the review
> team has not looked at it yet. Why?*

A: The review team works M-F. The team does not work on weekends or on
holidays. Also, make sure your product was submitted. The team does not
monitor the "Pending" status queue.

> Q: *I had a product in Pending and it disappeared! Where did it go?*

A: Products are auto deleted after a certain amount of time of
inactivity. You will receive email

reminders that you have a product in Pending. You need to get them
submitted before 2 weeks' time

passes or they will delete from the system.

> Q: *Who can I talk to if I am having issues with Pass?*

A: Please submit a ticket through the [[PA Support
System]{.underline}.](http://dazpasupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)

> Q: *Who can I talk to if I am having a QA issue?*

A: Please submit a ticket through the [[PA Support
System]{.underline}.](http://dazpasupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)

## Creating a Bundle

Pass has a new feature that allows you to quickly create your bundle and
tie all the intended products together on that bundle page. This allows
you to ensure that all the products related to the bundle are kept
together from review through release.

To do this, follow these steps:

1.  Create a separate submission for each product in the bundle

2.  Create the Bundle submission.

3.  On the Bundle Submission, select "Bundle" as the Product Type

4.  Once you save, you will have a new box in "Store Information"
    section called "Sub Products"

5.  Copy and paste (do not type) the name of the first product you want
    > to add to the bundle. It should pull up with the PASS: in front of
    > the name.

![](media/image30.png){width="3.932260498687664in"
height="1.658332239720035in"}

6.  Select it and repeat for each product that will be in the bundle

7.  Save your page

You will now be able to see your products listed on the bundle page.
Clicking he small green& white "+" will take you directly to that
product's page.

![](media/image31.png){width="6.009067147856518in"
height="1.7508333333333332in"}

## Tips to Help get Your Product Through Review

-   Make sure everything is complete. All promos are uploaded. Files and
    > Validator reports must be uploaded, and you need to have a full
    > description and feature list filled out.

-   Make sure your promos are compelling and show what you are selling.
    > If you are selling hair for example, it should be the focus of
    > your image and not lost in a full scene with guns and explosions.

-   Make sure your imagery is fully rendered. Good renders can take time
    and while you may be in

> a hurry to upload, images full of "noise" and artifacts do not look
> good and will be sent back.

-   Do not use Pass to run "ideas" past the review team. If you need
    guidance on a product you are

> thinking about, please submit a ticket through the [[PA Support
> System]{.underline}.](http://dazpasupport.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)

-   If the review team asks for changes, it is based on their experience
    > and knowledge of store sales; what works and what does not. The
    > review team is there to help you and your product look and sell as
    > well as possible. If you have questions on what is being asked, be
    > sure to respond in the comments below the feedback and hit Submit
    > Product so the team can help you.
